I'd like to welcome everybody to
the marketing analytics section of our
Coursera course.
My name's Eric Bradlow.
I'm professor of marketing and
statistics here at the Wharton School, and
I'm really excited to be with you and to
teach you really what I've been doing for
the last 20 years.
So what I get to talk about, being that
I'm the last person in the session,
are the five major application areas of
analytics today in the field of marketing.
And that's right, I get to talk to
you about the really cool stuff.
What is Google doing with analytics?
What is Amazon doing with analytics?
What are big firms,
other firms that you may not be
thinking about doing with analytics?
And I get to spend some time
talking about my own research and
what I've been doing with
analytics over the last 20 years.
There will be basically a five part
structure to what I'm going to
talk to you about.
The first and most important question, and
this is where everybody should start,
is the data.
If you don't have the right data, if you
don't have the individual level of data,
then you can't do customer analytics.
So part of what I want
to talk to you about is,
how do you build the right
infrastructure collect the right data?
The second part is exploring the data.
A lot of want to rush and field, rush and
fit fancy statistical models,
I'm a statistician,
I love fancy statistical models, but
it's never where you should start.
You should always start with basic
exploration of the data, and
I can always give you an example
from the days I spent at DuPont.
I spent three years as
a marketing person at DuPont.
The first thing when I presented the
statistical model to one of my colleagues
or my boss, he'd say, Eric, that's very
interesting, but can you show me something
basic in the data that suggests
that this effect is actually real.
That's what I'm going
to talk to you about.
The third part is prediction.
So there's the old joke, the old adage,
prediction's only hard when you're
talking about the future, but
that is what marketing people do.
We make predictions about the future.
But the key, and this is what this module
is about, we do it one customer at a time.
One of the old stories I like to tell is,
you know, if Sony pictures calls me on
the phone and says about the Marvel film,
we want to predict how many people
are going to watch Ant Man in
every state of the United States.
I would say great topical problem,
really interesting problem, but
that's not customer analytics.
If you want to predict what each person's
going to do, how many of them are going to
see Ant Man, how many are going to see the
previous Marvel films, how many are going
to see the future Marvel films,
that's a customer analytics problem.
And it's not just a motion picture studio
that has that problems, grocery stores,
consulting firms, Amazon,
Google, Facebook, all of these companies
have this type of prediction problem.
Then the fourth part of course is
predicting the future's nice, but
optimizing the future is even better, and
that's really why marketing has
now gotten a seat at the C-suite.
Which is, we can now talk about
pricing for optimization.
We can now talk about emailing for
optimization.
We can talk about discounting for
Optimization.
And so, once you have the right
business problem and the right data,
you have explored the data, and you fit
a model, you want to optimize against it.
Because that's firms goal, firms want
to maximize revenue and profitability.
And then of course,
the last piece is taking business action.
And so, the nice thing about
going last in this module, and
talking about applications and case
studies, is I can talk to you about how
firms have actually used analytics for
decision-making.
And to be honest with you, this is really,
has been a 20 year journey for me.
It's been me working with
lots of different companies,
lots of interesting problems.
A lot of people again ask me, you know,
what's the difference between
being a statistician out of marketing,
and I'm saying today, it's not either or.
The one thing I always say is,
if you don't understand about
business analytics and its application
to marketing, there's a cement
ceiling sitting on top of you that you
cannot go beyond within a company.
And it doesn't matter whether you want to
be the CEO, the CIO, the CMO, the CFO,
everybody needs to understand how to
make money one customer at a time,
and I'm going to talk to you
about how firms are doing today.
I'm really excited about it and
come join me for the journey.
>> Good.